Welcome back.
It's time for us to actually implement continuous integration into our project.
We're going to be using circle C.I. and we're going to learn a few tricks along the way and we're going
to set this up all ourselves so let's get started.
Now we're going to be using circle C.I. which manages the server for us.
So they own the servers and we simply are using their service to run some tests for our project.
Now circle C.I. is actually free for a simple project like ours.
So you're more than welcome to follow along and implement circle C.I. into your projects.
If you're ever working on anything in teams I do recommend that use them because they're just very nice
and simple to use and only need to do is click on Explore the docs and just a heads up that they recently
upgraded to a 2.0 version that uses daquiri containers.
So just a heads up that for your documentation we want to make sure we use the latest.
A lot has changed since the 1.0 release.
All right let's talk about some of the things that we'll be doing.
Well we have our robo friends up.
Remember them.
And well this simple app still works.
Everything is good.
But Bruno has asked us to implement continuous integration into this project.
Now using this repository we're going to try and include circle see-I on here.
So every time there's a new poll request circle C.I. We'll run through everything and make sure that
it's even ready to be merged.
So let's get started with the circle C.I. so that we can implement it into our project.
Now circle C.I. uses a YAML file.
Something that we have seen before with Dharker as was when we worked with AWOS lambda and it uses a
YAML files to indemnify how you want your testing environment set up and what tests you want to run.
So let's build it first.
The first thing we want to do is we want to create a new folder in our in the root of our project and
by default we have to name it circle S.I. with a dot in front of it and that's because on any machine
such as Mac Linux or Windows files or folder whose names have a dot in front of it our cold system files
and they're automatically hit him by default users.
But this is a standard that circle see-I requires to have for their 2.0 version.
And here we create a new file and this file will have to be called config dot YAML file.
And this is where we will configure what we want circle see-I servers to run for us to get things started.
So let's just do a simple YAML file that circle C I can run and just a heads up in case you're wondering
where you can find more information.
Well obviously if you scroll down.
They have great documentation of what you can do let's just copy and paste some of their examples here
and paste that into our config YAML file.
We see that we're defining our version in our case we're using circle CO2.
So we need version 2 and then we define jobs.
What we want.
The server that they have to do well we wanted to do a build and this build will have a darker image.
Remember I said version 2 of circle C.I. uses docker and we know all about that because we learned about
it in our docker section what circle C.I. is doing is it's creating an image where it can run our test
and we can see here that they're using docker hub and they have a custom image called Circle C.I. and
it looks like they're using Ruby as the container to run our tests.
Now this doesn't have to be node or anything javascript's specific.
This is just the environment that the test will be running in.
And you can see that that is their custom image so circle có is going to use this container to create
the environment for your tests.
And then we have steps of why we need to do and we see over here that run simply says to echo a first
hello and that is just to print out a first hello to our project.
Now for us to implement circle C.I. we need to go to Sign-Up and then here you simply have to click
sign up with get help and once you do that you'll be able to connect to your get Haab dashboard and
you see over here that I already have some past projects already running and these are all my continuous
integration steps.
But for now if this is your first time you might have to give access to circle C.I. from your get have
a account.
Otherwise you should see an empty build's dashboard.
The next thing we want to do is actually add a project we want to make sure we add our robot friends
testing repo so that circle C.I. knows about it.
I'm going to click add projects and in here look at that I have all my repots listed here.
I'm going to click on Roble friends testing setup project see that and here we get some default things
that we should be using.
Or we can change things.
For example our project will have different operating systems we can use different languages.
I recommend that you just leave the default on our project as node and we can just have a Linux operating
system and then it shows you what the next steps are going to be.
But we're going to ignore all of that and leave everything as it is now.
You can see over here that they even give you a sample file they can use.
They make it very very easy to get started.
I'm just going to click Start building and see right away that my robo friends app starts building.
Everything is all set up.
And now the container you can see start container is going to run through some commands automatically.
So this is running on their servers on my robot rebel friends testing Ribault.
All right.
I had to pause the video there because it does take a bit of time for circle CII to actually run everything.
You can see that it took about five minutes to get everything done.
But let's take a look at what it just did.
We actually haven't even given it the config YAML for.
Because remember this is just on my desktop and I haven't committed it to get help yet.
We go back.
We see that there's a few things that happened with circle see-I without even giving it the yellow fall
for configuration.
We see that we're able to set up the environment it use the circle see-I Ruby to point four point one
image that we saw to launch an environment for us.
We can see over here and start container all the things that it did.
It also has enabled S-sh.
As you remember from the SSA section we can now use S-sh.
Look over here to actually S-sh into this container and see how everything's going maybe we need to
debug something we can S-sh in again something that we'll have to actually add to our public key to
the container if we want to do that.
And that's a little advanced and the can read up on your own but that option exists which is nice.
And then we do something called checking out the code which is circle see-I check so your get Haab repository
and clone's it.
You can see over here Colon's the full repository and actually run us through some steps by default.
It runs NPM install it runs NPM test.
If we click over here we see that our tests that we have on our project are Wrubel France project.
There are 16 Tests five snapshots all of them passed and we keep scrolling down and everything finishes
completely.
We have green everywhere and it says success.
If I go back to the builds we see that our robot friends testing and Master is now passing with success.
Now let's actually add a bit more functionality than the default functionality we get which is just
running NPM install and NPM test just to spice things up.
Let's extend this a little bit.
Right now we see that we're going to do a build in create a docker container.
We're going to check out the code and run Ecko a first hello.
This is just going to print this text but circle C.I. has this idea of workflows so I can actually add
another step
or perhaps a now they're built.
So that is another container.
And this container again I can just keep everything the same but this one I'm going to say double trouble
to be right we actually now need to rename these.
And this is what workflows is in circle C.I. so that we can distinguish them.
So let's just say this one's going to be Bobby.
This is going to be Sally and now using these two I can define what we call a workflow or workflows
and and here we simply say again what version we want to use the workflow for and we can name it whatever
we want.
I'm going to name it.
Bobby underscore Sally because we're going to be writing both of them and these will have jobs that
they would need to accomplish.
And these jobs are going to be the Babi job.
Make sure I add a space here.
And Sally so this workflow is going to say hey run this workflow Bobby and Sally and those include these
things.
So run two containers running the checkout and then run echo command.
Let's just save this to make sure everything works.
We have our circle see-I config file.
Let's actually add this to get up to that circle see-I has a configure file to actually play with.
I'm going to get ad and then get commit I'm going to add circle C.I. to our commit message.
And then finally get push origin master.
Now I'm using maß and I haven't created a branch or for this project which is not advised but for demonstration
purposes for now I trust myself as just me on this project.
I'm just going to push straight to master.
All right let's go back to get how oh we have four seconds ago something that already failed.
All right let's go back to get up and see what happens.
Want to refresh go to commits and oh I see that I have a giant X now next to my commit.
I click on it.
All right.
We've committed our config done YAML file and I go back here and I click on failed.
I see that your config has errors and may not run correctly.
Awesome.
So I mean that's not great but at least we know that circle C.I. can detect our configuration file and
we see here that it gives a pretty nice air of what might have scale error migrating config to version
2.0.
And the errors occurred in Job workflows.
Steps is not a list.
So let's go back and fix that with a YAML file.
You really have to be careful with indentation.
So anytime you're working with YAML files make sure you followed the documentation and what they expect
in this case are indentation needs to be won back like this let's save that once again do our get push
or G.M. although you know what.
Just to demonstrate what circle C.I. actually does.
Let's create a new branch.
I'm going to say get checkout be for short hand to create a new branch and I'm going to call it circle
C.I..
All right.
We've created a new branch.
If I do get status I see that we have our config YAML file that's been updated.
I'm going to say get commit I'm going to commit circle see-I to this is our try to.
And then I'm going to get push
origin Circle C.
So push to our branch
and silly me I realized that I forgot to get at.
Try that again.
Get ad get commit circle see-I to.
There you go.
That's a lot better.
And then you'll run get push origin circle C.I..
All right let's go check out get help here.
All right we have a request.
Let's take a look at here.
First everything looks good.
Those are the changes that I want.
I'm going to just with our commentary and just say create pull requests and look at that circle C.I.
is now running all my poor requests just like that.
We see that your test passed on Sally.
But Bauby right now is still working.
So it's half done how easy was that.
And once all the checks have passed I get these green check marks.
And now it's ready to merge requests.
Well let's go check out circle C.I. here.
I'm going to go back to Bill's and we see that.
Oh yeah look at that.
We have a success.
We've spun up the environment.
We've checked out the code.
That's great.
And we also have the echo.
Double trouble.
If we go back here we see that we did double trouble here with the echo.
But what about a first hello by Bobbie.
If we go back we actually see that there were two jobs.
If I go to click on Bobby Sally workflow we see that oh there's two jobs in this workflow.
If I click on Bobby I get Bobby Acco hello first.
Okay that's great.
And then if I go back to workflow I see that.
OK.
Sally and Bobby and I see exactly what time it took.
If I go back to build's I see that that's why I have two greens here.
They each ran in their own container very very cool.
And you also noticed that we no longer ran the NPM test for NPM install because we now are giving it
a config file and these config file is going to say exactly what we want it to do.
So now we actually have to implement our own to make sure that we test our code.
We NPM install our code and everything is running smoothly.
All right.
I think it's time for us to actually implement something valuable here.
Just echoing Double Trouble doesn't really help us with our robo friends up.
But now that we see the power of circle C.I. in the next video we're going to configure this.
So it has a nice workflow.
I to merge a pull request confirmed the merge and I'll see you in the next video.
Buh-Bye.